README.md, before:

# T.A.R.A.L.L.O.
Tuttofare Assistente il Riuso di Aggeggi Logori e Localmente Opprimenti  
(aka L'inventario Opportuno)

An extremely granular inventory management software for computer hardware specifically, halfway between a CMDB (configuration management database) and a PIM (product information management).

## Installation

### Environment configuration

First things first, install `docker` (usually `docker.io` in package managers) and `docker-compose` (same name).  
If you have macOS or Windows go [here](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop).

Then, clone the repository and create a default configuration:

```bash
# Clone the repository
$ git clone git@github.com:WEEE-Open/tarallo.git
$ cd tarallo

# Create default configuration
$ cp sample.env .env
```

To configure the development environment, edit the `.env` file in the root directory. the following configuration options (and relative default values) are as follows:

```bash
# Enable XDebug in the development environment
XDEBUG=true

# Enable XDebug's profiler
PROFILER=false

# Wether this is a development or production build
DEVELOPMENT=true
```

### Environment build

The following commands might be used to interact with the development environment:

> NOTE: If you don't have access to the `make` command, you can open the `Makefile` and execute the commands manually. There are at most a couple of commands for each target.

- `make build` - create the development environment
- `make destroy` - clean up the development environment
- `make up` - start the development environment
- `make down` - stop the development environment
- `make dbupdate` - update the database schema (when instructed to)
- `make examples` - resets database content with example items and products
- `make rebuild` - shortcut for `make down destroy build up`

Now go to http://localhost:8080 and eat some taralli 🍩 (this is the most similar emoji, don't judge me, okay?)

### Features

- T.A.R.A.L.L.O. development instance accessible at [`127.0.0.1:8080`](http://127.0.0.1:8080).
- T.A.R.A.L.L.O. APIs at `127.0.0.1:8080/v2/`
- A default user (`dev.user`) generated on the fly with automatic login enabled (you can't test the SSO component, sorry).
- A default API Token: `yoLeCHmEhNNseN0BlG0s3A:ksfPYziGg7ebj0goT0Zc7pbmQEIYvZpRTIkwuscAM_k` (see the [documentation](https://github.com/WEEE-Open/tarallo/wiki/Managing-the-session-and-Authentication)).
- Adminer at [`127.0.0.1:8081`](http://127.0.0.1:8081).
- Database (MariaDB) acessible externally by `root/root` at `127.0.0.1:3307` (note the non-standard port)

If you only have to test out the application or interact with it, you're done!

#### Issues
- Adminer is half broken: you have to _purposefully_ fail the login at least once before logging in for the first time after a `make build` or `make rebuild`

### Development

To connect PHPStorm to XDebug on the docker container, follow these [instructions](docs/xdebug/XDEBUG.md).
Also connect PHPStorm to the database on `127.0.0.1:3307` for maximum efficiency (note the non-standard port).

If you want to profile the application enable the profiler in the [configuration](#environment-configuration). XDebug profiler traces are generated directly within the `utils/xdebug` directory in the git tree on the host machine.

The directories of the git tree that contain the application's sources (`public`, `src` and `tests`) are directly mapped within the container, and changing any file in those directories will immediately reflect on the running instance inside the container.

### Testing

> **NOTE:** Coverage is currently broken due to dependency conflicts

To run tests from PHPStorm, follow these [instructions](docs/tests/TESTS.md)

### Production

Make a git clone of this repo, then:

```bash
cp config/config-example.php config/config.php
nano config/config.php # Set the actual values
bin/build-cache
composer install --no-dev --classmap-authoritative --optimize-autoloader
```

If this is the first deployment you'll need to import `sql/database.sql`, `sql/database-data.sql` and `sql/database-procedures.sql` manually in the production database, if it is an update you may need to run the update script: use `php bin/update.php` on the server.

## More details

### Examples

There's a set of default items and products that can be used for tests.  
You get that by running `make examples`. It will reset the database, deleting any items or products that you added.  
There's not much more to it.

### Database

Database files are found in the `sql` directory.
- `database.sql`: schema.  
- `database-data.sql`: "static" data needed for the software to work. It can be edited, but you'll need to run `make features` afterwards.  
- `database-procedures.sql`: some procedures and triggers, all of these are needed for the entire thing to work.

### Feature list generation

`generate-features /path/to/this/directory` reads the feature list from `sql/database-data.sql`, converts it to PHP data structures and places it into `src/Database/Feature.php` and some other files (`generate-features` tells you which ones when it's finished).

The prefererred way to run this script is to use `make features` instead of calling it directly. This is a CLI script, you shouldn't upload it to a server or access it from the browser.

Modified files should be manually reviewed and committed.

### Router cache

To enable FastRoute cache, set `CACHE_ENABLED` to true in `config.php`.

Caching probably won't work in developement, so you could enable it only in `config-production.php` (which `make` copies to `build/config/config.php`).

Cache files in `build` directory are generated automatically when running `make`.

Commit message:

Cache docker builds both locally and on CI. Make cached build the default, update make targets (#193)
* Add CI badge

* Skip make examples for CI, first attempt at Docker caching

* Fixed makefile

* Changed make CI target

* Change operation order

* Use cached build

* Use image tags in docker-compose to enable caching

* Fix syntax

* Fix docker pull

* Make docker pull not fail if no image is found

* Fix problems due to conditional short circuiting

* Fix problems due to conditional short circuiting (for real this time)

* Fix image names

* Instruct composer to use cache

* Cannot change name on docker pull

* Changed generated image name

* Changed generated image name (inside workflow too)

* Test in production

* Fix pulled tags to match docker-compose expected value, change around shell scripts, prettify workflow, slight change of approach

* Delete stray parhentesis

* Use volumes for content to avoid cache invalidation

* Refactored workflow file

* Only take name from repo

* Try a different one

* Test in production v2

* Give up on dynamically generated repo name

* Add failsafe to docker image retagging

* Add even more failsafes

* Update image and cache names within docker-compose

* Revert name that broke everything before for no apparent reason

* Test in production v3

* Fix image naming

* Use repo specific secrets for upstream, run only on upstream

* Redo make targets, make cached build the default

* Update readme

README.md, after:

# T.A.R.A.L.L.O.

[![Continous Integration](https://github.com/alecello/tarallo/actions/workflows/continous-integration.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/alecello/tarallo/actions/workflows/continous-integration.yml)

Tuttofare Assistente il Riuso di Aggeggi Logori e Localmente Opprimenti  
(aka L'inventario Opportuno)

An extremely granular inventory management software for computer hardware specifically, halfway between a CMDB (configuration management database) and a PIM (product information management).

## Installation

### Environment configuration

First things first, install `docker` (usually `docker.io` in package managers) and `docker-compose` (same name).  
If you have macOS or Windows go [here](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop).

Then, clone the repository and create a default configuration:

```bash
# Clone the repository
$ git clone git@github.com:WEEE-Open/tarallo.git
$ cd tarallo

# Create default configuration
$ cp sample.env .env
```

To configure the development environment, edit the `.env` file in the root directory. the following configuration options (and relative default values) are as follows:

```bash
# Enable XDebug in the development environment
XDEBUG=true

# Enable XDebug's profiler
PROFILER=false

# Wether this is a development or production build
DEVELOPMENT=true
```

### Environment build

The following commands might be used to interact with the development environment:

> NOTE: If you don't have access to the `make` command, you can open the `Makefile` and execute the commands manually. There are at most a couple of commands for each target.

- `make build` - create the development environment (with caching)
- `make rebuild` - shortcut for `make down destroy build up`
- `make refresh` - create the development environment (without caching)
- `make destroy` - clean up the development environment
- `make up` - start the development environment
- `make down` - stop the development environment
- `make dbupdate` - update the database schema (when instructed to)
- `make examples` - resets database content with example items and products
- `make ci` - used internally by CI: make build without the examples step

Now go to http://localhost:8080 and eat some taralli 🍩 (this is the most similar emoji, don't judge me, okay?)

### Features

- T.A.R.A.L.L.O. development instance accessible at [`127.0.0.1:8080`](http://127.0.0.1:8080).
- T.A.R.A.L.L.O. APIs at `127.0.0.1:8080/v2/`
- A default user (`dev.user`) generated on the fly with automatic login enabled (you can't test the SSO component, sorry).
- A default API Token: `yoLeCHmEhNNseN0BlG0s3A:ksfPYziGg7ebj0goT0Zc7pbmQEIYvZpRTIkwuscAM_k` (see the [documentation](https://github.com/WEEE-Open/tarallo/wiki/Managing-the-session-and-Authentication)).
- Adminer at [`127.0.0.1:8081`](http://127.0.0.1:8081).
- Database (MariaDB) acessible externally by `root/root` at `127.0.0.1:3307` (note the non-standard port)

If you only have to test out the application or interact with it, you're done!

#### Issues
- Adminer is half broken: you have to _purposefully_ fail the login at least once before logging in for the first time after a `make build` or `make rebuild`

### Development

To connect PHPStorm to XDebug on the docker container, follow these [instructions](docs/xdebug/XDEBUG.md).
Also connect PHPStorm to the database on `127.0.0.1:3307` for maximum efficiency (note the non-standard port).

If you want to profile the application enable the profiler in the [configuration](#environment-configuration). XDebug profiler traces are generated directly within the `utils/xdebug` directory in the git tree on the host machine.

The directories of the git tree that contain the application's sources (`public`, `src` and `tests`) are directly mapped within the container, and changing any file in those directories will immediately reflect on the running instance inside the container.

### Testing

> **NOTE:** Coverage is currently broken due to dependency conflicts

To run tests from PHPStorm, follow these [instructions](docs/tests/TESTS.md)

### Production

#### Make targets

There is a production-specific build target (`make cache`) that builds the php cache.

Make a git clone of this repo, then:

```bash
cp config/config-example.php config/config.php
nano config/config.php # Set the actual values
bin/build-cache
composer install --no-dev --classmap-authoritative --optimize-autoloader
```

If this is the first deployment you'll need to import `sql/database.sql`, `sql/database-data.sql` and `sql/database-procedures.sql` manually in the production database, if it is an update you may need to run the update script: use `php bin/update.php` on the server.

## More details

### Examples

There's a set of default items and products that can be used for tests.  
You get that by running `make examples`. It will reset the database, deleting any items or products that you added.  
There's not much more to it.

### Database

Database files are found in the `sql` directory.
- `database.sql`: schema.  
- `database-data.sql`: "static" data needed for the software to work. It can be edited, but you'll need to run `make features` afterwards.  
- `database-procedures.sql`: some procedures and triggers, all of these are needed for the entire thing to work.

### Feature list generation

`generate-features /path/to/this/directory` reads the feature list from `sql/database-data.sql`, converts it to PHP data structures and places it into `src/Database/Feature.php` and some other files (`generate-features` tells you which ones when it's finished).

The prefererred way to run this script is to use `make features` instead of calling it directly. This is a CLI script, you shouldn't upload it to a server or access it from the browser.

Modified files should be manually reviewed and committed.

### Router cache

To enable FastRoute cache, set `CACHE_ENABLED` to true in `config.php`.

Caching probably won't work in developement, so you could enable it only in `config-production.php` (which `make` copies to `build/config/config.php`).

Cache files in `build` directory are generated automatically when running `make`.
